---
layout: post
title: "Why Testing Matters from Day 1"
date: "2015-05-03 09:47:15 +0300"
---

Many startups will say things like "Well we are more interested in
getting things out the door than doing testing", and then use this as
an excuse to not create any sort of testing in the early days of a
company. 

The figure that getting something out the door and into the hands of
customers sooner rather than later is good. And there is some truth it
that, all the tests in the world will not help you if you can't find
people who want to pay for or use your product. 


They figure that they will go back and add the tests later. The
problem is that in 20 years in the software business I have found that
most companies never do that. There are always more features to write,
new bugs to fix and new demands on the team. 

And of course if your startup is successful sooner or later it will
stop being a startup and will become a grown up company. At that point
keeping your servers running and your customers happy is not just
important to your business, it *IS* your business. 

Without automated and repeatable tests is impossible to know if your
code is really working and if your new change maybe breaks something
else.

This leads to frustrated developers, which leads to developers
leaving, which results in an attempt to hire new developers who don't
know the system. 

![Shaving Cream][/images/shaving_cream.jpg]


It has been my experience that without testing as part of the culture
of development given enough time most code tends to turn into a sloppy
mess of shaving cream. 
